docs: erd (#75647)
metabase/metabase: docs/data-studio/schema-viewer.md

---
title: Schema viewer

> summary: Visualize relationships between tables in you database using an entity-relationship diagram (ERD)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summary: Visualize relationships between tables in your database using an entity-relationship diagram (ERD)
```

---

# Schema viewer

_Data Studio > Schema viewer_

{% include plans-blockquote.html feature="Schema viewer" %}

> Schema viewer helps you understand relationships between tables in your database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schema viewer helps you understand relationships between tables in your database.
```

![Schema viewer](./images/schema-viewer.png)

> If you're looking for a visual representation of dependencies between _Metabase entities_ (questions, metrics etc) and their underlying tables, check out [Dependency graph](./dependencies/graph.md) instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're looking for a visual representation of dependencies between _Metabase entities_ (questions, metrics etc) and their underlying tables, check out the [dependency graph](./dependencies/graph.md) instead.
```

> ## What schema viewer shows

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What the schema viewer shows
```

> For a particular schema (if your), the schema viewer will display:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on Metabase's table metadata, the schema viewer will display:
```
Reinforcing the source here.

- All tables in the schema (including hidden tables)
- Database names for tables and fields
- Database types for fields

> - Foreign key relationships _defined in Metabase_ (as arrows between tables)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Foreign key relationships _set in Metabase_ (as arrows between tables)
```

> - Entity keys _defined in Metabase_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Entity keys _set in Metabase_
```

> Schema viewer displays relationships based on the [Foreign Key semantic type](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md) defined in Metabase, not based on constraints defined directly in your database. However, during [database sync](../databases/sync-scan.md), Metabase automatically maps database foreign key constraints to foreign key semantic types, so in most cases you won't need to set these manually.
> 
> If you've defined additional foreign key relationships in Metabase table metadata that don't have corresponding database constraints, schema viewer will display those as well.
> 
> Similarly, schema viewer displays entity keys based on the [Entity Key semantic type](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md) defined in Metabase, not on primary key constraints in your database. During sync, Metabase automatically maps database primary keys to entity key semantic types, so they'll usually match. If you've manually set an entity key on a field that isn't a database primary key, schema viewer will display that as well.

Reviewer 2: This is an interesting quirk. I wonder if "defined in Metabase" is the right phrasing, given that Metabase can sync the definition fron the db (where its definition technically, if not practically, lives). 

Maybe "set"? And consolidate the entity/foreign key sections, since they share the same source quirk?

```suggestion
The schema viewer is powered by Metabase's metadata about your database, not your database directly.

For example, the schema viewer displays relationships based on the [Foreign and Entity key semantic types](../data-modeling/metadata-editing.md) set in Metabase, which is not the same thing as the primary keys and foreign key contraints defined in your database. In practice, however, they're the same: Metabase automatically sets this metadata when it [syncs with your database](../databases/sync-scan.md).

You can, however, also manually set entity and foreign keys in Metabase, even when the database itself lacks these relationships. The schema viewer will display those relationships too (as the schema viewer only "knows" what the Metabase metadata knows).
```

Don't feel strongly about set/defined, though. Stronger about the consolidation and emphasis on viewer's source data.

## Using the schema viewer

To see the table relationships in the schema viewer:

1. Go to **Data Studio > Schema viewer**
2. In the top left, select a database.
3. (For databases that have schemas) Select a schema.

In the schema viewer, you can:

- Use the mini-map in the bottom right to focus on specific parts of your schema;
- Search for a table and center the schema viewer on that table;
- Drag and rearrange the tables;
- Click a table header to open an info panel;

> - Click a foreign key field to navigate the connected table.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the mini-map in the bottom right to focus on specific parts of your schema.
- Search for a table and center the schema viewer on that table.
- Drag and rearrange the tables.
- Click a table header to open an info panel.
- Click a foreign key field to navigate the connected table.
```

> - Click a foreign key field to navigate the connected table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Click a foreign key field to navigate to the connected table.
```

## Permissions for schema viewer

> Only admins and people in the [Data Analysts](../people-and-groups/managing.md#data-analysts) group can access the schema viewer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The schema viewer is part of Data studio, which only people in the Admin or [Data Analysts](../people-and-groups/managing.md#data-analysts) groups can access.
```

> The schema viewer is part of Data studio, which only people in the Admin or [Data Analysts](../people-and-groups/managing.md#data-analysts) groups can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The schema viewer is part of Data Studio, which only people in the Admin or [Data Analysts](../people-and-groups/managing.md#data-analysts) groups can access.
```

Reviewer: do we capitalize this? it's not capitalized in the UI

> Data analysts need to have at least [query builder](../permissions/data.md) permissions for at least one table in the database to be able to use the schema viewer for that database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Data Analyst group additionally needs to have at least [query builder](../permissions/data.md) permissions for one or more tables in a database to use the schema viewer for that database.
```
